---
title:  "SQL Introduction"
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/teasers/func.jpg
categories: 
  - functional
tags:
  - testing
---

_Common SQL_  

Preparation:  
In the world of software testing, our primary goal is to ensure quality and validate that an application behaves as expected. While we expertly navigate the user interface, clicking buttons and filling out forms, the true story often lies beneath the surface—in the database.
For any tester working with applications that store data, SQL (Structured Query Language) is not just a "nice-to-have" skill; it's an absolute superpower. It bridges the gap between what you see on the screen and what is actually persisted in the system's backend. Relying solely on the UI for data verification can be time-consuming and sometimes impossible for complex states or large datasets.
Here is my personal collection of the most frequently used and practical SQL queries that I usually use(MySQL).  
* DDL
    1. show database;
    2. create database if not exists db1;
    3. drop database if exists db1;
    4. show tables;
    5. desc tb1;
    6. create table tb2 (id,int,username varchar(10));
    7. alter table tb1 change id identityNumber varchar(10);
* DML
    1. insert into tb1(identityNumber,username) values("xxxxxxx","Alice");
    2. update tb1 set username="Bob"
    3. delete from tb1 where username="Bob"
* DQL
    1. select username,id from tb1;
    2. select distinct username from tb1;
    3. select username as user,id as number from tb1;
    4. select username where age>60;
    5. select username where age between 50 and 60;
    6. select username where id in (1,2);  = selec username where id = 1 or id = 2
    7. select username where email **is (not)** null
    8. select gender,avg(score),count(*) from tb1 where score > 70 group by gender having count(*) > 2 ;
    9. select id,username from tb1 limit 6,3; 3 is display items, 6 is index. display item is constant, but index is dynamic. index = (currentPage - 1) * displayItems
